feat(docs): add point attractor example (#346)
aica-technology/api: docs/docs/examples/core-components/point-attractor.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Point Attractors
---

import pointAttractor from './assets/point-attractor.png'
import pointAttractorExample from './assets/point-attractor-example.gif'

# Point Attractors

This page shows how Dynamical Systems (DS), and in particular Point Attractor components, can be used to generate
dynamic motions in AICA Studio. As described [here](../../concepts/robotics-concepts/motion-generation.md), the motion
of a Point Attractor DS is always directed toward a point in space, the attractor. The core components come with two
implementations of a Point Attractor, the `Signal Point Attractor` which acts on signals in Cartesian space and the
`Signal Joint Point Attractor` which has the same behavior in joint space.

## Signal Point Attractor (Cartesian space)

### Interfaces

> The component has three inputs and one output, all of type `cartesian_state`;

Reviewer: I thought the ; was intentional, but it's : in the Example section. Same in some cases below.

> - Input pose: The current state of the DS, e.g. the pose that should be determined to calculate the motion towards

Reviewer: Might be a personal preference, but I find both parts of the sentence a bit confusing. I would go maybe with "state of the robot", or at least after e.g., explain that this usually corresponds to the current state of the robot. "..pose that should be determined to calculate the motion.." is a bit complex I think.

Author: I don't disagree with it but would like to stay close enough to the mathematical formulation. Simplified a little but happy if you have another suggestion

  the attractor.
- Attractor pose: The attractor of the DS, e.g. the pose towards which the motion guides the robot.
- Base frame: This input is reserved to advanced users and can be used in cases where the DS should be expressed in a
  moving reference frame.
- Output twist: The linear and angular velocity generated by the DS to drive the input towards the attractor.

Usually, the goal of a Point Attractor is to move a robot to a desired point in space. The predicates of the component

> help to detect when that is the case such that other events can be triggered;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
help to detect when that is achieved such that other events can be triggered;

  configurable threshold (see parameters section below).
- Is in range: This predicate is true whenever the linear and angular range predicates are both true.

<div class="text--center">
  <img src={pointAttractor} alt="Point Attractor interfaces" />
</div>

### Parameters

Changing the parameters of the component will tune the response and decide at which threshold the predicates switch;

- Linear and angular gains: As shown
  [here](../../concepts/robotics-concepts/motion-generation.md#point-attractor-dynamical-system), the function of the DS
  contains an additional scaling constant $K$, represented by the linear and angular gains parameters here. The higher
  these values are, the higher the generated velocity. Both parameters are of type vector, so it is also possible to set
  different gains per axis, or even disabling motion along some axis entirely.
  :::warning
  Setting high gains can lead to fast movements and overshoot.
  :::
- Maximal linear and angular velocity: Before publishing the output twist, the component clamps the linear and angular
  velocities to the values of those two parameters. This allows to increase the gains without generating an excessive

>   response, for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
response.

- Linear and angular precision threshold: The linear and angular distances from the attractor for the input to qualify

>   as in linear range and in angular range (see predicates above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as in linear and angular range (see predicates above).

## Example

To set up this example, follow these steps:

> 1. Create a new application and record the last frame of the robot of your choice as described

Reviewer: Last frame here implies last one in the kinematic chain I guess. I don't know if we should make it clearer.

   [here](../guides/application-frames.md#record-frame-in-3d-scene-view).
2. In the same application, add the `Frame to Signal` component. Open its parameter settings, turn on auto-configure and
   auto-activate and set the required parameter `Frame` to the name of the recorded frame from step 1.
   :::tip
   Learn more about the `Frame to Signal` component [here](../../concepts/building-blocks/frames.md#frame-to-signal).
   :::
3. Add the `Signal Point Attractor` to the graph and enable auto-configure and auto-activate. Then, connect the Pose
   output of the component from step 2 with the Attractor pose input. Also connect the Cartesian state output of the
   Robot State Broadcaster in the hardware with the Input pose input.
4. Add the `IK Velocity Controller` to the hardware, enable auto-load and auto-activate, and connect the Output twist of
   the Point Attractor with the Command input of the controller.
5. Finally, make sure to load all components on start by creating the necessary event edges.

Start the application from AICA Studio, then switch to the 3D view. Drag the frame around and observe how the robot is

> dynamically being attracted towards the frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dynamically attracted towards the frame.

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Point Attractors
---

import pointAttractor from './assets/point-attractor.png'
import pointAttractorExample from './assets/point-attractor-example.gif'

# Point Attractors

This page shows how Dynamical Systems, and in particular Point Attractor components, can be used to generate dynamic
motions in AICA Studio. As described [here](../../concepts/robotics-concepts/motion-generation.md), the motion of a
Point Attractor DS is always directed toward a point in space, the attractor. The core components come with two
implementations of a Point Attractor, the `Signal Point Attractor` whose inputs and output are poses and a twist in
Cartesian space and the `Signal Joint Point Attractor` which acts on signals in joint space.

## Signal Point Attractor (Cartesian space)

### Interfaces

The component has three inputs and one output, all of type `cartesian_state`;

- Input pose: The current state of the Dynamical System, e.g. the pose that should be determined to calculate the motion
  towards the attractor.

> - Attractor pose: The attractor of the Dynamical System, e.g. the pose that the motion should end up in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Attractor pose: The attractor of the Dynamical System, e.g. the pose towards which the motion guides the robot.
```

sounds a bit better to me, without saying this is inaccurate. So up to what you prefer

  response, for example.
- Linear and angular precision threshold: The linear and angular distances from the attractor for the input to qualify
  as in linear range and in angular range (see predicates above).

## Example

To set up this example, follow these steps:

1. Create a new application and record the last frame of the robot of your choice as described
   [here](../guides/application-frames.md#record-frame-in-3d-scene-view).
2. In the same application, add the `Frame to Signal` component. Open its parameter settings, turn on auto-configure and
   auto-activate and set the required parameter `Frame` to the name of the recorded frame from step 1.
   :::tip
   Learn more about the `Frame to Signal` component [here](../../concepts/building-blocks/frames.md#frame-to-signal).
   :::
3. Add the `Signal Point Attractor` to the graph and enable auto-configure and auto-activate. Then, connect the Pose
   output of the component from step 2 with the Attractor pose input. Also connect the Cartesian state output of the
   Robot State Broadcaster in the hardware with the Input pose input.

> 4. Add the `IK Velocity Controller` to the hardware, enable auto-load and auto-activate, and connect the Output twist of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Add the `IK Velocity Controller` to the hardware, enable auto-load and auto-activate, and connect the `Output twist` of
```

another personal preference comment. I just think it's weird to capitalize "Output" but then have "twist" after a space. Bold would work too, I just think it's not as clear this refers to a reserved keyword (same above for other signals). 

At this point we might want to establish a standard way to handle this across docs. We have some comments here and there but not sure we have internal guidelines for this (correct me if I'm wrong)

Author: I share that concern yes. I try to use code blocks normally but if I do that here, this is what we end up with and I don't find it visually attractive. Also, I would already have to use code blocks in the interfaces above in a sense.
<img width="949" height="157" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2f6af0bd-98df-4a2b-90cf-521670150e7c" />

I'm not sure what the best approach is, maybe others can weigh in as well. I also struggle with this accross the whole docs

Author: The version without blocks was harder?

Reviewer 2: for me yes. I mean any visual queue that this is something reserved would make sense to me, but it's still readable as is. I see how it might not always be very nice, it's just a little more visually verbose imo. 

Again, not strong opinion though. I am also asking for my future PRs
